# Diversity Balancing on Two-stage Collaborative Filtering for Controlling Less Popular Item in Movie Domain
My final task project, creating recommender system able to recommending less popular but still relevant item 

## Abstract
A movie recommendation system is responsible for providing recommendations to moviegoers about other movie titles that are relevant, interesting, and maybe liked by the audience. One of the most frequently used methods in recommender systems is Collaborative Filtering (CF). CF excels in the level of accuracy for items recommended to users, even in situations where the content is challenging to analyze. The downside is that CF only recommends popular items. Therefore, a recommendation system that can provide recommendations for less popular items with an acceptable level of accuracy is needed. This final project proposes a Two-stages based CF movie recommendation system using the Diversity Balancing method. This system works by predicting user ratings, followed by generating a list of candidates to be utilized for Diversity Balancing. Diversity Balancing is done by replacing popular items with less popular ones yet still relevant. The test results with precision, recall, personal diversity, and aggregate diversity methods showed that the highest values are 0.8000, 0.5366, 0.5301, and 0.3709, respectively. These results show a balance between accuracy and diversity at parameter k = 7 and a threshold rating of 3.0.

Keywords: recommender systems, collaborative ﬁltering,  diversity,  less popular item
